people say chase your dream inaudible
drinks are equally valid it's not and
you know and there is a real difference
between being a stripper who's paying
her way through college and dropping out
of college to be a stripper it's not the
same like that's the other thing i'm not
anti vacation like if you want to go to
Thailand for three months and it's a
vacation okay it's just a vacation but a
vacation by definition is not real life
it doesn't solve real problems as a
vacation you can do that maybe you'll
learn something maybe it'll move you
emotionally deeply to see the pyramids
or to live in a log cabin fine I'm happy
for you but you are not saving the world
and [ __ ] you if you're going to come on
YouTube and say that saving the world
and when your vacation is over you go
back to Chicago Chicago is still [ __ ]
up and apart from the gang violence and
the poverty the same Factory is burning
coal and the same powerplant is
generating power and the same
slaughterhouse is killing a million pigs
nothing has changed you haven't changed
the world you've engaged in a steepest
fantasy instead of actually changing the
world to actual activism or actual
engagement you know the problem is a lot
easier to talk about from the solution
what is the solution the solution is not
a bunch of boring professors giving
lectures nobody wants to hear right
it's it's it's a wonder why some of the
biggest you know um social media
personalities sometimes are some of the
most I don't know uneducated blue-collar
type of people and I guess if you're
making as much money as you make it
those elite levels the incentive to go
back to the school may not be there as
much but yeah well money money is part
of it and you know dumb luck is part of
it like who makes that money is partly
luck but I mean another thing is is
contra distinction which is a fancy word
for not being exactly the same as your
competition like if you and I worked
really hard to make a youtube channel
that's identical to CNN like in every
way we have the desk we have the logo
you do exactly same things in it's not
going to be a big hit because CNN
already exists people aren't looking for
that you know and I think I mean what
you're mentioning like the very kind of
uneducated rough people seeming to be
the most popular certain certain type of
person emerging as a star on YouTube I
think that's probably because those the
people who are not on CNN you know
what's that contrast and you know
unfortunately also I mean all
politically like the crazy conspiracy
theories and like kind of the worst of
the worst will the neo-nazis and all
this other stuff that's that's what's
popular on YouTube also because that's
what you can't get on mainstream radio
and mr. so you don't did there's good
and bad to that but I mean yeah an
exciting thing is though CNN is actually
not doing that well yeah yeah they're
keeping above water but they're not
flourishing let's say i would estimate
just by what my dad tells me CNN maybe
gets maybe 500,000 nightly viewers for
prime time there are youtubers that get
1 million views a video of log you know
so it just shows you how how much media
in general is changing and that's it's
10 years from now it may look a lot
different you know you may see more
traditional media outlets using youtube
or streaming services on the internet
you know it's it's exciting it's
scary well I agree that's so two sources
and that you know Jenk Uighur the guy
already mentioned Jenk from The Young
Turks he's talking about that constantly
and he knows the stats he's always like
oh it's so many million for CNN and so
many million for Fox News and also but
like respected publications like the Los
Angeles Times or something like he'll
point out like the number of people who
see a YouTube video is way more than who
read some article from Los Angeles time
they say oh there are a lot of contrast
to make there the other problem though
is the nature of the content production
right so like Genk Uighur his show all
he does is sit on his ass and make
sarcastic remarks about the news he
doesn't go to Cambodia and interview
people he doesn't go to Afghanistan and
do research he doesn't do any original
research of any kind ever you know so
that's a problem because you know the LA
Times I don't know they may not be great
I don't live in Los Angeles and I read
the LA Times but like a newspaper like
that it may have a smaller audience but
they are actually going and doing the
original research the original work you
know this is a huge fundamental
difference in terms of production and I
think about that all the time too
because well you know look a lot of my
friends you know and my ex-wife and so a
lot of people i know have PhDs and our
university professors are in that kind
of world they put all this time and
money into going to an academic
conference where nobody wants to hear
their paper you know they prepare a
paper maybe they publish the vapor
nobody [ __ ] reads it and then like
you fly around the world they fly to
london england and like literally six
people are in the audience to hear their
their paper they spent all this money to
fly around the world deliver and they
stand there and you know it's it's
tragic and a lot of them a lot of them
are psychologically [ __ ] up about it
like for real and you can understand why
like if you do that for years you get
bitter you get angry you feel
unappreciated you feel like your life is
wasted and like you know the stuff i
talk about the stuff i care about it's
not popular but like you know more than
300 people clicked on my my essay in
just a couple of days may i say about
mass murder in the year nineteen twenty
in this small town small town on the
border between russia and china and
japan you know now you know
that's it in just a couple of days like
300 people clicked on it I don't know
more than 600 people watch the YouTube
video if anyone's ever interested they
can google it they can find it like
there are levels to the meaninglessness
of life there's no money in any of this
there's no money either way but yeah
that's the other sense so like how
meaningless is your life compared to
that University professor going to a
conference so yeah the bigger issue that
I would kind of raise just from hearing
you you know this conversation is that
the death of print media and even the
death of literacy the way you know we've
known it in the past um you and I are
two different very different interested
individuals i would consider you very
literate i am at best average lee
literate okay I can present myself
decently and I can write ok but not to
the extent of even my father um and so
we were talking about how the garbage
content kind of is the most popular
whereas you have a institution like the
New York top LA times it may have a very
small base but they actually do real
work and they have certain standards
they live by I would say that is another
result of the the death of print media
the death of literacy especially in
America um and this is kind of a future
we live in where everything is most
information I would I'm gonna make the
argument is consumed through video um
and you have the influence of people's
looks you have the influence of money
you have the influence of you know what
i would call celebrity culture even even
our social media scale you know the the
people that kind of have the connections
and do the right collabs um rise to the
top um it is good to see you know I
would consider bite size vegan a
relatively more literate person than you
know a literate representation of vegans
um even I know we've kind of you know
discussed some of the boring nature of
this content but um
for vegan at times you know definitely
seems to be a little bit above average
intelligently academically so um it's
encouraging but I think just for the
fact that I myself personally I don't
read unless I have to fabric I have to
read a text book I'll read but I don't
really read much or come in jail I'm in
jail I've read a lot of books in jail
but um I remember you said in a video
that it's very important um one of the
most important things about going to
school going to college university is
that you start developing your writing
skills in your essay skills and I would
say even in the last six months being
back in school I have been able to
express myself much more effectively um
in and really more directly as a result
of writing papers getting back into that
kind of mindset if you don't do that and
you know you get out of high school you
don't go to college and you you know
blow up on social media and your ebooks
are right I you know there's there's an
element of being illiterate there so
what did what do you think about that
talk about yeah well [ __ ] it emits a
deep topic and you know for sure there
are a lot of examples I'll just say like
in my own life the first University I
went to was University of Toronto and it
was garbage it was so bad and when I
came out of that like I really felt like
nobody gains anything from University
and I met an Australian guy who did not
go to university he was one of those
guys like he went for like two weeks and
dropped out so he did he did show up
like he went at the beginning and it was
probably because his parents had enough
money for him to just kind of like he
had in here yeah he inherited money from
a grandparent so he could just kind of
waste his life to some extent and
meeting and talking to that guy who was
not born dumb that was the first time
like looking into his eyes and my really
appreciating how ignorant he was and how
incapable he was of educating himself I
was like holy [ __ ] this guy would
actually benefit from a university
education well and let it was just for
me it was like recognizing like you know
what my own experience universe
may have been really negative but
actually this is important some ways and
the type of repetition you're talking
about if putting together an essay even
if it's a crap SI even if it's about
something you're not really rested in
having some repeat experience with that
programmatic reading research etc yeah
when I when I look at a high school
dropout like test beg you know she
dropped out of high school to chase the
YouTube not even university yeah she
could benefit from university education
healthy and happy 96 I think I don't
know where she's from where she's from
the United States or what I didn't would
maybe don't know where she hangs out
with freely and during writer in person
so she's lately she's been living in
Australia but I don't know I don't know
where she's from but yeah like healthy
and happy 96 she dropped out of college
to do this and it's like yeah you know
what you're dumb and you're gonna stay
dumb chasing your dream because your
dream is to be a dumb [ __ ] and have
people send you fan mail because you're
in your bikini in your workout gear and
promoting your lifestyle you know people
say chase your dream thoughtful drinks
are equally valid it's not and you know
and there is a real difference between
being a stripper who's paying her way
through college and dropping out of
college to be a stripper it's not the
same yeah I guess I'll and that part of
the discussion on the fact that um I
think it is meaningful for vegans
especially on YouTube to really consider
the fact that are um you know and I'm
not trying to bash anybody not trying to
beat a dead horse though but our leaders
are at least online and the people that
represent vegans online um a lot of them
are illiterate and a lot of them either
use money or fame or connections to rise
the top the way they do and that's not
just in the big in YouTube scene that's
in media in general so I think it's
very interesting and I think it is
relevant to at least recognize that
because i myself you know i was
encouraged by certain people my family
by your channel to maybe think about
that and go back to school be like you
know uh would it benefit me and benefit
my audience online if i were in school
you know and even just kind of I kind of
document the experience you know what I
mean a little bit i talk about it um so
that's kind of like where I'm at is just
that I don't want to be 10 years from
now all I really have is my fleeting
social media career um if that ever were
to happen and you know nothing else
really you know it's not enough it's not
meaningful enough to me I i do want to
think of myself as an educated you know
citizen and I like you know don't get me
wrong I like to produce garbage content
you know I mean I still like control i
still like that i think that has a place
for entertainment purposes yeah and we
look I was just gonna say um you know I
did see the conversation out with your
brother in which you guys shouted out
some ideas for new things you want to do
channel and I actually do think those
are good ideas like I just say I'm not a
snob like I think all kinds of content
should exist like you know some of your
ideas were more wacky and comedic I
think that's great and you know it's not
what I think I can contribute to and
like I don't think workout videos are
bad or something I just don't think I'm
the guy to do it you know it's a totally
different thing to think like you know I
mean like there's no point in me
pretending to be too pretending to you
there's no point in me pretending to be
durianrider either look there's no point
am I trying to reproduce that but it
doesn't mean I think like you know
nobody should do workout videos or
something you know like uh I think I
think that's fine all kinds of different
people have a different voice you know
to bring to it and that's and that's
cool and you know you'll find your
audience and you'll find your voice and
you know your audience will find you and
that's that's part of the part of the
process but look this this broader
question you've raised what's you know
the problem is a lot easier to talk
about in the solution like okay so like
complete idiots are the most prominent
voices for veganism right now I checked
so like a guy who's not a complete idiot
but do I also don't really like Gary
Francie on a if you check his youtube
channel he has like a whole bunch of
audio only uploads more like a podcast
up well and they got like 35 views each
56 views yeah like nobody gives a [ __ ]
and like even if you think about his
most popular speeches that are normally
like hosted on someone else's channel it
promoted them a bit like okay so over a
couple of years it got a hundred
thousand views it's still you know like
it's not even really reaching the the
vegan audience and I can understand that
it's boring like it's boring and
pedantic and it's not really useful and
it's not really relevant to people's
lives right like so even if it's
intelligent in some sense like he's a
former University law professor or
whatever you know like it's it's a step
up from freely enduring wider in some
ways but what is the solution the
solution is not a bunch of boring
professors giving lectures nobody wants
to hear right I did it's it's really not
easy to see a solution and the same like
I talked about this especially with
henna and Jason like you know what is
the solution to the Thai fruit festival
I think it's to have a better or
festival somewhere I don't know you know
I don't know where I can't host it I'm
not in a position to host a you know an
international festival and like the
irony is that I'm going to be back in
Thailand in just one month I could go to
Chiang Mai I could in terms of the
timing I could literally attend the next
typhoon festival in terms of when I
would be in Thailand and when I would
have to leave Thailand to go to China I
could go right like I don't know does
anyone want to beat me up or get me
killed if I go to check for wondering
how I want to be warm welcome you'd
really get youtubers that are saying
biking eating fruit is the only way and
they have the spiritual heir to them and
they're like these big gurus so that's
why we see all the [ __ ] clones you
know what I'm saying because people
latch onto that ship what these people
have made us used to is really kind of
the Freak Show aspect of veganism and I
think that's why non vegans are drawn to
and watch people like freely is that it
seems so outrageous everything about it
you know like it's not just a vegan
it's 30 bananas a day it's the most
outrageous the most ridiculous diet
that's why it gets covered newspapers
it's can you believe it and you know
she's not like a well-balanced person
she's an extreme scrawny person who's
denouncing medical doctors who doesn't
believe in vaccines you know there's an
extreme element to it there's a
freakshow element to it that is what has
drawn a larger audience to her because I
think a very significant percentage of
reviewers are not vegan they're people
were drawn to the entertainment value of
that or what have you but I mean the
question you're asking really is what
comes after the freak show like okay
like the Freak Show either it grows and
grows until it reaches its its natural
limit which I don't know it could be as
big as Oprah could be I don't know
what's what's the maximum size for this
because you know Oprah there's nothing
really interesting about Oprah I mean
how did she get such a big following
really you know um so you know I don't
know maybe freely becomes as big as
Oprah but you know the freakshow thing
is kind of going one way what's the
alternative to the freakshow and
definitely vegan gains may change but
for him to the whole you know he claims
he's a psychopath and all this kind of
horse [ __ ] you know there was definitely
a freakshow element to that also and you
know would he start a fistfight with
other bodybuilders these kinds of things
that we know you know that's it well I
think it leads nowhere I mean you know
for me that's easy to say but I mean
it's it's definitely formed a kind of
generations view of what veganism is are
supposed to be back in two thousand one
I made a couple videos talking about
this the main idea dominating people's
minds it was called a narco primitivism
that had really different weird
implications we're really was the vision
of being not just against industrialized
agriculture but against industry period
you know this back to the land a
primitive ecology and you know i just
mentioned like at that time there were a
lot of really stupid laws and
resolutions being passed by the united
nations and national governments laws
that were not really going to help the
environment but pretended to it was
partly a reaction to that is saying know
that that won't make a difference that
won't save the environment but here's
what we'll going and living in a wood
cabin and you know refusing to be part
the industrialized society is kind of
hyper hyper primitive back-to-the-land
movement so you know and that's also
[ __ ] I mean that's also a freak show
and that's also like most most people be
drawn to that because it's so extreme
and it's so edgy and it can't really be
a meaningful part of anyone's life and
so on so yeah um it fits very well in
our capitalistic society you know I
think if anything that's what we have
going for us is that veganism is very
much um it has the potential to be a
real you know consumer kind of activity
um well i agree i think that's a
strength so you want to say more say
more now you know I just as I think the
incentive to create vegan products with
the f overall ethical message of it um
and create products that people are
actually gonna want look at lush you
know lush yeah so pretty successful
company and you have like these huge
vegan youtubers um are you familiar with
um uh what's your name nuh mony
pneumonia frost manami frost manami
frost I don't know where no tattoos all
over she's kind of like us well she
happens to be vegan it's not a vegan
channel though it's a makeup channel you
know you could say very vain but she
happened to be vegan you know when
promotes these amazing consumer products
like lush um so I think you know all
right look as ridiculous to go you know
the 2001 scene to go back to the you
know primitive living on the land line
so that's right well no but but as a
vacant look okay I agree with you on
several levels last thing you said I
agree with you except that it can be a
good vacation like that's the other
thing i'm not anti vacation like if you
want to go to Thailand for three months
and it's a vacation okay it's just a
vacation if you want to live in a wooden
hut for three months and live you know
in a primitive life and washer or
laundry in the river that's fine as a
vacation but a vacation by definition is
not real life it doesn't solve real
problems and like to me that's very
meaningful you like whatever let's say
you come from Chicago Chicago is [ __ ]
up whatever poverty gang violence all
kinds of problem they're probably also
nice things but Chicago is not my point
but
you know you can go on vacation from
Chicago for three months whether you go
to Thailand or you go to Egypt and see
the pyramids or you go and live in a log
cabin and return to a primitive
ecologically sustainable lifestyle as a
vacation you can do that maybe you'll
learn something maybe it'll move you
emotionally deeply to see the pyramids
or to live in a log cabin fine I'm happy
for you but you are not saving the world
and [ __ ] you if you're going to come on
YouTube and say that saving the world
and when your vacation is over you go
back to the Chicago Chicago is still
[ __ ] up and apart from the gang
violence and the poverty the same
factory is burning coal and the same
powerplant is generating power and the
same slaughterhouse is killing a million
pigs nothing has changed you haven't
changed the world you've engaged in
escapist fantasy instead of actually
changing the world to actual activism or
actual engagement so this is this is one
side of it but look the other thing the
bigger issue you mentioned that I also
agree with you about and this is why you
know there's this contrast between me
and a privilege vegan who in the past
you were really interested influenced by
some Stan I don't think it makes
veganism stronger to be anti-capitalist
I think that really cripples veganism in
some ways and when we're talking about
effective activism like what is
effective active you know there's
there's a spectrum and YouTube is
somewhere on the spectrum but I don't
think YouTube is zero I just I just
refuse to believe it's a hundred like if
it's a scale from 0 to 100 know like
durianrider is a completely you know
he's a maniac and claiming that YouTube
is the only form effect value that's the
most of it no you're dreaming you know
but you know it's it's better than zero
it's somewhere on the spectrum and one
of the most obvious examples that
strangely nobody on YouTube talks about
is just opening a restaurant which is
completely capitalist it's part of the
capitalist system you're going to open a
restaurant to make money and let's be
real like a modern lease acccess phul
restaurant will make more money than a
YouTube channel okay if you own and run
a restaurant is hard work but if you
think YouTube offers you real money no
running a restaurant or bakery a vegan
bakery could be a great business a vegan
food truck vegan catering service these
are real businesses they're completely
part of capitalism they're completely
positive and they do influence people
they do you know have some positive
political effect I mean I've pointed out
like something that changed Toronto was
just one city in Canada like it's true
in some ways politically Chinese
restaurants change the city they're a
huge visible presence and one of the
simplest messages that a Chinese
restaurant delivers is hey Chinese
people live here we're not going to
disappear we're a permanent part of this
city like that's such a simple political
message you can forget about it but
there's a difference between being in a
city where you never see the Chinese or
the Chinese are just considered poor
people live there temporarily they have
no real presence and you know we have
permanent restaurants maybe they have a
permanent you know Buddhist temple or
some other architectural building which
vegans don't have we have any way I mean
I've always been its parison but you
know like um so you know on that level
permanent institutions vegan restaurants
or the vegan day care center or vegan
vegan legal legal office you know or
something anything like that at a really
minimum level it gets the message across
we are a permanent community here but of
course the hope the dynamism is you know
the Chinese restaurants they don't
really get politically organized once in
a while they do in Toronto like we had
problems with garbage collection and you
know the Chinese restaurants all got
organized and went to City Hall and said
to the mayor you know you're corrupt the
garbage the garbage trucks aren't coming
on time or you know once in a while
there is some political activism from
the Chinese restaurants but obviously if
you have a city with 20 vegan
restaurants in it there's potential
there for someone to really happen for
something beyond just just selling food
and just announcing as they say
politically that you are or a community
to Europe you're a permanent presidency
so to say you know yeah in the scale
from 0 to 100 I don't know running a
restaurant is somewhere in the middle
but that is something meaningful and in
terms of the permanent vacation vegans I
haven't heard any of them talking about
that like so we've been talking about
other aspirations like going to
university getting a diploma beavers but
you know what you can be a high school
dropout and open a restaurant I'm not
you know maybe it'll help to go to
university but that's not something that
requires you know like being a dietary
expert or nutritionist or a research
scientist involved with health it
doesn't require anything to it doesn't
wear anything that being a bodybuilder
requires either you know almost anyone
could open a restaurant you know
obviously you need a little bit of money
little bit of organization but that even
that is strangely rare in terms of the
current scene to see that it's think
positive and to me the contrast or to
the religious vegans the Buddhists are
kicking the [ __ ] out of us on that you
know the Daoists and there's this really
crazy cult group the supreme master
Ching hai group there I don't know
they're moderately crazy a [ __ ] [ __ ]
there's a a way there's a you know
there's to me a disturbing irresponsible
new religious group the supreme master
Ching hai group they own and operate the
world's biggest chain of vegan
restaurants which is called the Loving
Hut chain now if freely and durianrider
with their you know their cult we call
it a cult if they were trying to open a
chain of vegan restaurants I would
respect the hell out of that but you
know and it's again it's not real
activism it's not political activism but
my standards are low I'd be so happy for
them I just say okay you guys are a
couple of [ __ ] nut cases with a cult
and you doing sling positive you're not
just riding your bicycle you're not just
taking bikini photos you're not just
selling [ __ ] diet books okay you've
tried to get organized maybe with some
of your more wealthy fans and you
started opening restaurants and you want
to do this because a small group like
most people have never even heard of
that religion the supreme master Ching
hai religion I know if you heard of
Loving Hut if you heard of that chain
okay okay okay okay that's interesting
because where you are it doesn't exist
yet but like I'm telling you all over
Europe Loving Hut is in France it's in
England it's in Asia like it's a real
international chain run by this religion
that teaches people here's a convenient
teaching and religion if you volunteer
your time to work for free at the
restaurant it's good karma it'll lead to
a good reincarnation
this is like the Catholic Church
teaching you that giving money to the
Catholic Church is really good for your
soul you know what a convenient really
just discovered you know so to me you
know those are those are the contrasts
that are in it but like I mean like I
say I guess it's part of the Freak Show
phenomenon you know it's just like what
what's come out in front what's become
the dominant mode in in veganism in 2015
i'm hoping 2016 is better hoping 2017 is
better you know has really been this
this kind of freak show that got a lot
of attention and then again the the
money and the sex and the fame that all
goes into fueling it i guess i guess
that's the ultimate truth right is if
you're running a restaurant even if
there's money the sex and the fame
aren't there and of course it's slow
money it's not quick money so i guess
that i guess that's why that's not up
front this to be around but you know i'm
interested in going into hotels like i
do think that some businesses like a
hotel or a nightclub or a comedy club
most comedy clubs have terrible food
really terrible really overpriced like
let's say you have a comedy club
nobody's going there because it's vegan
but they go to hear a comedian and they
happen you know the whole menu happens
to be vegan that's the order and
probably they'll be happy because it's
better than what normal copy clubs have
you know the expectations are so low
comedy clubs are only selling like deep
fried chicken wings and stuff like that
you know it's really bad barroom food um
you know that also is not activism but I
I'm cool with it like it's great okay
well wonderful if there's a and what in
England you know there's one soccer team
and I'll get their name wrong and the
whole stadium is vegan so like the hot
dogs and like everything in the stadium
is vegan for the athletes as goes for
the audience and it's cool it's great
but I mean that's all so strange to me
like this is not what we're celebrating
on YouTube with YouTube because now and
it's not even what people are looking
into again I'm not disclosing anything
private here so i'll just mention it
like when I talk to people like Kenya
but including chania when I was talking
to her like one things I just encourage
you do is like you know when you go to
these vegan restaurants like you can
interview the people
opened them like you know like the owner
of the restaurant and put that on
YouTube and just ask them what motivates
them and what they think future is and
for whatever reason she found that like
really intimidating she like I could
just tell she really didn't want to do
it and I was encouraging her because I'm
interested I don't know I don't know
[ __ ] about Israel I've never been to
Israel like it's a totally foreign
country to me and I don't know like I
don't know what kind of people open a
vegan restaurant is I really don't know
right so to me that's I i I've on
YouTube that's something I would be
interested to see now other people i
already know like thailand like a little
too well i already lived there for years
but I know if I did that if I go and
interview people who open restaurants in
Thailand and talk to them about what
motivated them what V does meet some of
you any of these issues I think that
would be interesting to other people on
YouTube but like something like that
it's so obvious and yet it's really been
outside of uh what's been going on and I
think I mean it's for all the reasons
that you've kind of just mentioned I
mean on the one hand it doesn't plug
into the vanity thing it doesn't plug
into you know the anti-capitalist thing
the radical politics thing tomorrow it's
only a couple years ago that occupy wall
street thing that came and went but I
forget what year that was that 2010 some
of that around there yeah but I mean
like there was Occupy Wall Street all
this kind of phony radicalism I remember
looking at at the time I was like man
five years from now it was good to me I
venison
ah bum moons yen and the old legends
mention you so at that time when Occupy
Wall Street admin I was in Saskatchewan
and I was involved with the indigenous
people voltix the First Nations politics
and like to see those two struggles
because sometimes they would have
protests on the same day next to each
other you'd be like here's the [ __ ]
left-wing communist struggle that's
gonna last for like another two months
and then disappear and like here's the
like native people struggle that's been
going on for like at least a hundred
years you know by another measure its
four years but like in its current form
it's been like a hundred years of like
coming to proximate and it's still going
to be going on out of years from now and
it really matters and its really take 10
like it was just this weird contrast for
me because that was those are the
political questions I was involved with